BRIEF OVERVIEW
I have chosen to use NHTSA named Decode VIN. This API Decodes a vehicles VIN number and returns several features for that specified vehicle. The responses I will be using in my Paint Shelf project are Make, Model, Paint Code, and Paint Name if plausible. Out of all API’s I have found, NHTSA’s update time stamp is the newest. All the API’s on NHTSA are free to use and give a whole lot of information for every car o the road already, as other studied API’s are made for vehicles being sold. The Decode VIN API returns information in XML, CVS, and JSON. This will satisfy my project requirements by allowing the user to search a VIN code and year and be given their paint code for the vehicle that VIN number is associated with.

TARGET AUDIENCE
The Target Audience for Paint Shelf is for automotive painters to help them find a specific paint code in seconds rather than search hundreds of paint cans that are stored on the shelf. If the painter has used that paint, there is some left on the shelf then the user can verify that no paint needs to be mixed or bought for the current project. Because of the harmful chemicals used in automotive paint, Paint Shelf’s targeted age group is 18+, or to certified automotive paint technicians. The targeted gender is neutral as there are several successful men and women painters across the globe. The users should have training in handling and understanding of the dangers the chemicals have. There are several painters who don’t have a high school diploma, or any college experience, but all painters must be certified in safety training. Income level of the targeted users is 10,000+. The user will most likely be employed when they are using Paint Shelf. The user will need a device to run Paint Shelf, most likely their personal device or a work device that is given to the user to use. Family situations do not affect the target audience. Paint Shelf will be available across North America, focusing on the United States of America and Canada. Paint Size plans to add language features to help with those who don’t speak English and add more locations in the future. Other companies who are competing with Paint Shelf would be large paint companies such as PPG, Deltron, AXALTA, DuPont, Omni, etc.
USER STORIES (positive)
As a Painter, I want to add a new paint so that I don’t have to look through hundreds of cans.
Given that the paint is correctly labeled
When the user adds the paint to the database
Then the paint is stored and displayed for the user.
As a Painter, I want to decode a VIN so that I can identify the paint code.
	Given that the VIN exists
	When the user searches the VIN
	Then the paint code is displayed to the user.

As a user, I want to view all of one colors paint codes so that I can find a specific color.
	Given that multiple Paint Codes are stored
	When the user selects the color category
	Then the paint codes are displayed for the user to choose from.
As a user, I want to edit existing paint so that I can remove or change information about the paint.
	Given that the paint exists in the database
	When the user clicks on edit 
	Then the ability to change information is presented for the user.

BRAINSTORMING
I plan on creating the main application interface with simplicity in mind. Using other applications as a guideline on how they were designed, such as a hamburger menu in the top left corner of the screen, search bar on top of the screen and filters in the top right corner. The given feature requirement is the VIN reader to help retrieve paint codes off vehicles that don’t display the paint code, or the paint code is hidden in various places. I decided to use the hub and spoke hierarchy because I think it will benefit my applications feel. On the main screen there will be colored buttons, clicking on the buttons will take the user to a new screen which will then allow the user to view all of the different paint in the specified color category, clicking the paint will take the user to the paint information which will display what make and year the paint is used for. The types of navigational constructs I will be using is the hamburger menu, search bar, and filters. When the user is on the home screen, the search bar will search the database for a specific paint codes regardless of the color. The search bar on the screen of the selected color will search only paint codes that are the selected color, as well as the paint name. 

DRAW APPLICATION HIERARCHY DIAGRAM

BRANDING
Paint Shelf promises to help people save time and money. Paint shelf will help the user save time by being quick to show results in a nice and orderly manner. Paint Shelf will help the users save money by showing the users what already exists in their system, so the user does not buy more product for a project. Paint Shelf will be updated often to ensure that no errors are presented and constantly add new features for the users. Paint Shelf wants to make sure the users can trust this technology and make sure that anyone with a disability can use the product. Paint Shelf will have ratings and application reviews to help keep our promise to the customers. I will be utilizing some of IOS’s UI kits and making some UI elements on my own, such as icons. The IOS UI kits I will be utilizing are the buttons, search bar, drop downs, and fonts. To keep my application consistent, there will not be any flashy buttons or detailed icons as though Paint Shelf is not an app that needs to be fancy. Paint Shelf is a heavy text ridden application so the fonts will be Tahoma for large labeling the user can easily understand. Time New Roman will be utilized for list headers and button labels, and Verdana will be used for the lists of paints and information. Instead of having a list of color names, I am also implementing colored buttons on the home screen that fit the primary color for the paints. 

ACCESSIBILITY FEATURES
Paint Shelf wants to ensure that most people can use the application, even if the users have disabilities that limits what the user can do. Some ways that Paint Shelf will help with these constraints are gesture-based actions, labeled on and off switches for the settings screen, easily readable text, and adequate button sizing. Having something turned on in the settings page will display a on and off indicator and when the switch is on, the color of the switch will be colored green. This will help users who are visually impaired as well at those who have cognitive constraints. The on and off indicator is as simple as 1’s and 0’s, 1 being on and 0 being off. Gesture-based actions, like sliding to remove an item in a list will also have another simpler and labeled way to remove that item form the list. There will be an option that pops up when the item is selected and shows the user the ability to remove the selected item from the list. This will help those who are aging, or simply do not understand the slide to remove option. Having readable text is very important. If the text is to fancy, the users may have a hard time reading the words. Paint shelf will have easy to read text and be large enough in size that all users can read the labels. To help with physical problems, such as people with Parkinson’s disease or have larger fingers than other people, Paint Shelf will have buttons that are easily clicked and separated enough from other buttons so the user does not accidentally click a  button they were not aiming for. Some accessibility features that Paint Shelf plans on implementing at a later date include custom text size and text overlay as these will help with constraints to.

